Essay #3

What causes global warming

"***Example statement***"
A growing dependence on electronic devices for entertainment, too much consumption of processed foods, and the lack of emphasis on physical education in public schools have led to an increase in the childhood obesity rates in this country.

Have to identify why the problem occurs, not the effects of the problem


effects:
Sea level rise accelerating

number of large wildfires growing

dangerous heat waves are more common

more severe droughts are occuring

extreme storm events are increasing in many areas



reference :: https://www.ucsusa.org/global-warming#.W_wmVOhKhEY
reference :: https://climate.nasa.gov/causes/

reference :: https://www.scientificamerican.com/article/deforestation-and-global-warming/ for deforestation

reference :: https://www.wwf.org.au/what-we-do/climate/causes-of-global-warming#gs.2WOUZcc

https://www.activesustainability.com/climate-change/how-greenhouse-gases-contribute-global-warming/

methane reference::https://www.theguardian.com/environment/2017/sep/29/methane-emissions-cattle-11-percent-higher-than-estimated

cfc information :: http://apps.sepa.org.uk/spripa/pages/substanceinformation.aspx?pid=114


methane

nitrous oxide

chlorofluorocarbos CFCs

deforestation


Essay needs to examine the causes behind a problem


word count - 118


Global warming has been a naturally occuring phenomenon over the last couple hundred years. Though small, these changes have had drastic effects on our planet. Global warming is an issue that will continue to be brought up and will continute to be a concern in our lives as sea levels rise and dangerous heat waves become mroe common. Severe weather is also on the rise with the number of large wildfires growing, more severe doughts and other exctreme storm events increasing in many areas. What has led to this global temperature and climate change? Human-beings have been a main source of contribution in the last couple hundred years. Deforestation and the release of other greenhouse gases due to human acitivty, such as, carbon dioxide, methane gas, nitrous oxide, and chlorofluorocarbos (CFCs) are the most significant causes of global warming.

Although clearing land can be useful for food and feed production, urban and infrastructure development, and tree products such as timber and palm oil, deforestation adds more carbon dioxide to the atmosphere than the total amount of emissions from cars and trucks on the world's road, specifically in tropical rainforests. Cars and trucks account for about 14 percent while deforestation attribute upwards of 15 percent of carbon emissions***. Trees use carbon dioxide but when they are felled they release this carbon dioxide into the atmosphere which interacts with greenhouses gasese in the atmosphere, contributing to global warming. The EDF (Environmental Defense Fund) has reported that 32 million acres of tropical rainforest were cleared from 2000 - 2009 and the number is steadily increasing. Though it would be wise to implement change, deforestation is more profitable than conservation. "Conservation costs money, while profits from timber, charcoal, pasture and cropland drive people to cut down forests."****. Convincing the residents of the Amazon basin to reduce deforestation is difficult because the forests are worth more cut down than standing and being conserved.

Carbon dioxide is the most prominent players in global warming, accounting for 53% of greenhouse gases and staying in the atmosphere for 20-200 years. Carbon dioxide is released from timbering and deforestation, but is also released into the atmosphere from a slew of other human-related activities as well. Every time we get into our vehicles and drive down the road we are burning fossil fuels, which releases more carbon dioxide into the atmosphere. Oil and natural gas furnaces realease carbon dioxide as they burn to heat our homes and businesses. Everytime we turn something on in our homes and use electricity, we have released more carbon dioxide into the atmosphere. Electricity generation creates a massive amount of this greenhouse gas when the power plants use coal or other forms of fossil fuels as the source to create electricity. Notice the smoke stacks at these facilities, pushing smoke up and into the atmosphere. Everytime an oil furnace kicks on and starts heating up, it is releasing carbon dioxide through the flue pipe, out the chimney and into the atmosphere. The production of cement and other materials also contribute to high levels of carbon dioxide.

Methane is the next greenhouse gas to effect global warming, contributing to 15%. Methane levels in the environment are relatively low and only stay in the atmosphere for roughly 12 years, but it has a high global warming potential that makes it amongst the worst of the greenhouse gases, 21 times that of carbon dioxide. Though it is being captured when possible at landfills, it continues to be a problem in other industries. Coal, oil and natural gas production and transportation account for half of methane levels, while livestock production, landfills and waste management account for the other half. Livestock production emissions have been larger than previously thought and continues to be a challenge in global warming. Cattle belching and flatulence doesn't sound dangerous and a bit comical, but methane levels from livestock, decay of organic waste and landfills are roughly equal to coal, oil and natural gas production and transportation.

Nitrous oxides and CFCs are the last component of human-activity related global warming. Nitrous oxides account for roughly 6 percent of greenhouse gas emissions with CFCs only making up a fraction. CFCs have been phased out of most countries and only developing countries were allowed to have a 15% emission level as per the Montreal Protocol, which was put into place in 1987. **** Nitrous oxides however continue to be released. Their molecules stay in the atmosphere for an average of 114 years. One way nitrous oxide is released is from various agricultural soil managements, such as synthetic and organic fertilizer application, manure management, and some other cropping practices. It is also released during fuel combustion with the amount being released depending on the type of fuel, combustion technology, maintenance of the equipment and operating practices. Nitrous oxide is also a byproduct from nitric acid production and adipic acid, which is used to make nylon and other synthetic fibers.

Deforestation and the release of other greenhouse gases due to human acitivty, such as, carbon dioxide, methane gas, nitrous oxide, and chlorofluorocarbos (CFCs) are the most significant causes of global warming. Tropical countries should seek ways to reduce deforestation to reduce the impact on carbon dioxide level and collectively the global community should look at alternative ways to reduce carbon dioxide due to burning of fossil fuels. Methane levels should be considered and watched and measured taken to continute to capture it. Though CFCs have been phased out, nitrous oxides continue to be released. Global warming will continue, wildfires will grow, climate will become more extreme unless globally we can reduce the amount of greenhouses gases we expell into the atmosphere. Human-related activities have been a significant factor in global warming but it can also be the factor that slows the effect.