Hill House

Released by Netflix, "The Haunting of Hill House" came into the scene in October of 2018. Directed by Michael Flannigan, this loose adaptation of the 1959 Shirley Jackson book, sharing the same name, has met critical and audience acclaim. Michael Flannigan is able to invoke feelings that make you connect with the main characters on all levels from terror to glee as this 10-part series explores the past and present lives of the Crain family. We see their lives as they spent their time in "Hill House" as children and how it has affected them in the present day as adults. The series is able to make you itch for the next episode, all while making you anxious to watch scene by scene. I believe the series is deserving of the acclaim due to its engagement and skillful editing.

Michael Flannigan and his cast have done an amazing job at keeping you constanly engaged. Each character is explored indiviually throughout the series all while leaving a little bit of mystery that makes you crave the next episode. As you crave the next episode, the series also puts you on edge as you see the series through. This mixture of exploration, mystery, glee and dread keep your eyes glued to the screen, not wanting to look but also anticipating the next jump-scare.

The editing that has been done on this series is precise and seamless. Many scenes contain small nuances that you would not pick up on immediately. There are times where re-watching a scene is neccessarry to fully comprehend what you might have seen in the foreground or something your peripherals may have seen in the background. As some character walk through doors, you are moved from past to present. These switches are done expertly. The transitions between past and present are smooth and perfectly placed that it doesn't distract you, but continues to lead you on.

Some reviewers did find the series to be slow moving for a horror series (IMDB reference). Though the series is promoted as a horror or terror show, the series walks the path of a drama. Using a dysfunctional family as the basis for the show, entwined in the stories of their past, has a clear path of a drama. However, a label is nothing but a label and shouldn't detract one from the basis and quality of the show. The show has plenty of time where horror or terror would surely fit the description.

"The Haunting of Hill House" is deserving of its high praise due to its fulfilling engagement and skillful editing. With the sceenry set, the shadows laid low, this series is sure to lead you on a path of mystery and anxiety. Even though it may not fit fully as a straight horror series, it does a beautiful job at mixing horror with drama, past with present. This all ahppens while keeping you focused and waiting.