The room was dim and the night swallowed the sun like -----describe-----. I had procrastinated again. I let time run off while I stared with a hypnotic gaze into the foreground. The desk was scattered with papers, pencils, and books. Music played lowly in the background to aid in the mood I had wanted to be in. Concentration. Meditation. I didn't want to end the night without completing my assignement but I grew more and more distracted as time went on. The assignment was easy, it wasn't challeneging. The assignment was a waste of my time. Why would I want to sit idly-by doing the same thing every single night when I could be utilizing the time for something far more productive or enjoyable. Production or enjoyment, both would be better than monotony. I looked at the computer screen, black with a single blinking cursor. The blackness always intrigued me. What could we do with it? What possiblities could we imprint on top of it? At that moment, I realized how powerful the cursor was. I realized the power that code had, the time I could reclaim and how I had to use my literacy skills to gain that knowledge.

Code runs everything we see on the computer screen. It runs calculations, models, and images. It emulates and creates. There is so much power that lies behind the black screen that we stare into when we are at the computer. Computers do not have minds of their own and they need help being told what to do. When we tell them what to do, what process we want them to endure, they carry it out with immense amounts of power and in unpresedented time. It will do exactly what you tell it to do, without question, as fast as possible. Every time someone creates a program and publishes it to the world, a little bit of their knowledge is imprinted on that software. Their thoughts, their intents. As we modify and change the code, we pick up on this knowledge. Their knowledge collides inside with our and creates new thoughts and ideas. It continues our progression, advancing the way we think. As we advance and move foward, we can use this knowledge to make human life easier and more productive. I always asked myself "How can I live a simple life?". I can remove the small things. I can automate it.

I never gave thought to how productive I could be by automating the small things in my day. If you could get rid of the tiny little things that took time, you could put that time into a jar that needed more attention. Time better spent doing things you enjoy. Time better spent with family or friends. What would I give to reap the benefits of not having to do all the tiny things. I tend to overcomplicate everything and took some time pondering the question. If I could automate my homework, I would have more time to do what I wanted. If I could have the computer do all the hard work, all the monotony, all the hard work, I would be able to move on in minutes instead of hours. All I had to do was learn the code.

Excited with the proclamation, I downloaded the compilers. I downloaded new text editors. I downloaded anything I could that would help me learn and understand. I spent hours reading and experimenting only to continuously fail. I never expected to have a hard time learning this. Learning was never this hard for me. I never had a difficult time comprehending concepts and this one was pushing me to my boundaries. My eyes bouncing back and forth from code to manual, hands to screen, cursor to blackness. I spent hours reading the manual and diciphering it into segments that I could process. Variables. Digest. Functions. Digest. For years I developed my own strategy to memorize and conceptualize these hard topics. One chunk at a time. As I progressed slowly, I made my computer echo "Hello". Within hours I was doing complicated math equations inputting only my unknown variables. This was worth the time spent. A few hours gone tonight, but many hours gained tomorrow. 

All my life I never realized the power that code had. It has the power to tell a computer to do anything we tell it to do, however we want. It can create and destroy. It has the power to save us all time and energy. We can automate almost anything in the world at this point in our lives. We can utilize this automation to make our lives easier and simpler. We can't take it lightly however. Learning to order a computer around is no simple feat. It can take weeks, months, years to learn some of the coding that is needed. I believe that this committment to learn and utilizing your literacy skills to the fullest can benefit all of us, even if it's just for homework.